[DON'T MERGE] Langchain Integration (#1312)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/integrate/pages/integrate-with-langchain.adoc

= Integrate with LangChain
:description: The Hazelcast integration for LangChain provides a Vector Store implementation that enables using Hazecast Vector Search with LangChain.

{description}

== Introduction

LangChain is a Python framework that makes it easier to create large language model (LLM) based solutions, such as chat bots by linking various components.

> LangChain `VectorStore` interface makes it easier to incorporate RAGs (Retrieval Augmented Generation) in LLM solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LangChain `VectorStore` interface makes it easier to incorporate a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) approach with an LLM.
```

`langchain-hazelcast` package provides the Hazelcast `VectorStore` implementation for LangChain.

> == Installing LangChain/Hazelcast Vector Store

Reviewer 2: Sometimes Vector Store uses initial caps, sometimes it's all lower case. Is it a proper name (in which case it should be 'Vector Store')?

config.cluster_members = ["localhost:5701"]
config.cluster_name = "dev"
client = HazelcastClient(config)
vector_store = Hazelcast(embeddings, client=client)
----

In case you would like to pass the client configuration without creating the client itself:
[source,python]
----
from hazelcast import HazelcastClient
from hazelcast.config import Config

config = Config()
config.cluster_members = ["localhost:5701"]
config.cluster_name = "dev"
vector_store = Hazelcast(embeddings, client_config=config)
----

You can find more about the various Hazelcast client configuration options in link:https://hazelcast.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client.html#hazelcast.client.HazelcastClient[Hazelcast Client documentation].

Although there is a default name for the underlying Hazelcast VectorCollection, you may want to use a different name.
You can do that by passing the name in the `collection_name` argument to the vector store constructor:
[source,python]
----
name = "customer-docs"
vector_store = Hazelcast(embeddings, collection_name=name, client=client)
----

== Updating the Vector Store

Once the vector store is created, you can start adding LangChain documents or string data into it.

> While adding the data, you have the option to associate identifiers and metadata with them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While adding the data, you have the option to associate identifiers and metadata with it.
```

Reviewer 2: Data plural isn't wrong, just think this is more elegant

Author: Thanks Amanda,
Updated at: https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1312/commits/cfce797f919233fd938130cf7394b6f76d8bc9c0

Hazelcast vector store has two methods to add data, `add_documents` and `add_texts`.
Using the former, you can add `langchain_core.documents.Document` objects, and using the latter, you can add strings.

In the simplest case, you would add one or more strings to the vector store:

[source,python]
----
texts = [
    "Hazelcast Platform uniquely combines a distributed compute engine and a fast data store in one runtime.",
    "It offers unmatched performance, resilience and scale for real-time and AI-driven applications.",
    "It allows you to quickly build resource-efficient, real-time applications.",
    "You can deploy it at any scale from small edge devices to a large cluster of cloud instances.",
]
ids = vector_store.add_texts(texts)
for id in ids:
    print(id)
----

Outputs:
[source,output]
----
8c28f820-d4ed-4cfa-bac4-89b2d110b380
b235643b-62c0-4039-9856-1493f921e1a4
083cc0a4-9221-48bd-b734-0de2b4754bb3
94b524bd-cdcb-4327-92e9-488ea5d915fd
----

`Hazelcast.add_texts` method returns the IDs of the added texts.

> If the IDs were not provided to the `add_texts` method, then they are automatically genereated, like in the example above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the IDs were not provided to the `add_texts` method, then they are automatically generated, like in the example above.
```

Author: Updated at: https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1312/commits/cfce797f919233fd938130cf7394b6f76d8bc9c0

You can provide the IDs manually by passing them in the `ids` parameter.

> That may be useful in case you would like to update data instead of extending the vector store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is useful when you want to update data instead of extending the vector store.
```

Author: Updated at: https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1312/commits/cfce797f919233fd938130cf7394b6f76d8bc9c0

[source,python]
----
ids = vector_store.add_texts(
    texts,
    ids=["item1", "item2", "item3", "item4"]
)
for id in ids:
    print(id)
----

If provided, the number of IDs must be equal to the number of texts.

You can also pass metadata with the text or documents using the `metadatas` parameter.
Each item of the `metadatas` list must be a Python dictionary.
Like IDs, the number of metadata must be equal to the number of texts.

[source,python]
----
ids = vector_store.add_texts(
    texts,
    metadata=[
        {"page": 1},
        {"page": 1},
        {"page": 1},
        {"page": 2},
    ]
)
----

> In case you have `langchain_core.documents.Document` objects, you can use the `add_documents` methods to add them to the vector store:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have `langchain_core.documents.Document` objects, you can use the `add_documents` methods to add them to the vector store:
```

Author: Updated at: https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1312/commits/cfce797f919233fd938130cf7394b6f76d8bc9c0

[source,python]
----
from langchain_core.documents import Document

docs = [
    Document(
        id="item1",
        metadata={"page": 1},
        page_content="Hazelcast Platform uniquely combines a distributed compute engine and a fast data store in one runtime."),
    Document(
        id="item2",
        metadata={"page": 1},
        page_content="It offers unmatched performance, resilience and scale for real-time and AI-driven applications."),
    Document(
        id="item3",
        metadata={"page": 1},
        page_content="It allows you to quickly build resource-efficient, real-time applications."),
    Document(
        id="item4",
        metadata={"page": 2},
        page_content="You can deploy it at any scale from small edge devices to a large cluster of cloud instances."),
]
ids = vector_store.add_documents(docs)
----

`Hazelcast` vector store has two class methods that combine creating the vector store and adding texts or documents to it.

> Those are `Hazelcast.from_texts` and `Hazelcast.from_documents` methods respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are the `Hazelcast.from_texts` and `Hazelcast.from_documents` methods, respectively.
```

Author: Updated at: https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1312/commits/cfce797f919233fd938130cf7394b6f76d8bc9c0

> Calling these methods return the `Hazelcast` vector store instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Calling these methods returns the `Hazelcast` vector store instance.
```

Here is an example that uses the `Hazelcast.from_texts` method:
[source,python]
----
vector_store = Hazelcast.from_texts(texts, embedding=embeddings, client_config=config)
----

== Searching the Vector Store

Once the vector store is populated, you can run vector similarity searches on it.
The `similarity_search` method of `Hazelcast` vector store takes a string to be used for the search and returns a list of Documents.

[source,python]
----
query = "Does Hazelcast enable real-time applications?"
docs = vector_store.similarity_search(query)
for doc in docs:
    print(f"{doc.id}: {doc.page_content}")
----

You can optionally specify the maximum number of Documents to be returned using the `k` parameter:

[source,python]
----
docs = vector_store.similarity_search(query, k=10)
----

== Other Vector Store Operations

You can retrieve Documents in the vector store using the `get_by_ids` method.
This method takes a sequence of IDs and returns the corresponding Documents if they exist.

> Note that, the order of the IDs and the returned Documents may not be the same:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the order of the IDs and the returned Documents may not be the same:
```

[source,python]
----
docs = vector_store.get_by_ids([
    "b235643b-62c0-4039-9856-1493f921e1a4",
    "24d72bd3-e981-4701-a983-0a7800383fd1",
])
----

To delete some or all Documents, you can use the `delete` method.

> It deletes the Documents with the given IDs if one or more IDs provided, or deletes all Documents if no IDs are provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It deletes the Documents with the given IDs if one or more IDs are provided, or deletes all Documents if no IDs are provided.
```
